Welcome back.
I have one last piece of information that's going to blow your mind.
And after this you can relax saying that all right.
No more surprises.
The hardest part is over.
It's gonna become easier and easier as we learn how to use prototype of inheritance.
Now this statement is true only functions have the prototype property.
What does that mean.
Remember this.
How Prado points to the prototype object.
Well the thing that contains this prototype object is always a function if we go back to our multiplied
by five.
Example we ask ourself is multiplied by five a function.
Well yes it is then it's a special type of object.
It has an M vocal piece of code.
It has an optional Name property.
It can have its own properties and we can use Prado to link up to the prototype but multiplied by five
itself because I just said it in that statement every function has a prototype property.
It has a prototype.
Let's have a look.
If I clear this and do multiply Well let's run that function again.
Function multiplied by five and I'll do multiplied by five.
Dot prototype and look at that.
I have a prototype now.
This prototype itself is pretty empty when we create a function like this.
This prototype we don't really use it just gets created but we never really make use of it because prototypes
although they are a property on all functions.
The only time we really use prototypes is using what we call constructor functions constructor functions.
They usually start with a capital letter and they contain the actual blueprint or prototype that we
use.
So for example if I do multiplied by five dot underscore underscore Kroto which links to that prototype
we already know that function dot prototype is going to equal exactly that if I do multiply by five
dot proto product and then up the chain again which will be the object constructor.
Well if I do object dot prototype I get the same thing.
But now you're asking yourself Whoa whoa whoa you just told me that prototype properties only exist
on functions and this is where it gets a little bit tricky because this object is something we've talked
about before.
It's the base object because if I do multiply by five prototype prototype and then one more time Kroto
will get no because we're past the space object but if I do type of object here I get.
Function what I know I know super confusing type of object is a function because well it has the prototype
property.
Remember when I talked about standard built in objects in javascript and we have all these things like
fundamental objects like object function boolean we have no end dates like no math date string all with
capital letters.
Well if I click on object here we see that this object is the object constructor that creates the object
wrapper
remember in order for us to perform an action in a program we have to have a function right.
That's what a program does.
It stores data and we use functions to manipulate that data.
So when we do something like
const object equals object underneath the hood JavaScript has to create that object.
And in order to create that object.
Well it uses this object constructor just to prove to you that that's the case.
If I do type of an empty object now look at that I get object because this is now an actual object that
we've created from the object constructor.
Now I am going to warn you and I know I've been bugging you about this.
This can get pretty hairy and complicated and it's hard to wrap your head around.
But if there's one thing that you take away from this video is that every function has a prototype property
and it references to an object used to attach properties that will be inherited by objects further down
the prototype chain.
The last object in the chain is this built in object dot prototype.
Remember that difference object is a function because it has the prototype.
Now the object that prototype is what we call the base object.
That's the very last piece or the very last object that we can look for properties on before we point
to no.
I told you that your brain was gonna hurt after this one oh and one last thing.
If I created let's say an object equals to an empty object will I be able to access object dot prototype
No it's undefined.
It's not a function right.
If I do let's say an array so const array if I do array dot prototype is that available.
No it's not a function.
What if I do a string dot prototype.
Is that available.
You don't have prototype because well that's just a primary type functions have a prototype and you
may notice here that we do have boolean functions we have numbers we have strings.
So if I do something like string dot prototype.
Well yeah we have that.
And strings have all these methods from the string constructor that they can inherit from even though
I did string dot prototype here underneath the hood when I try and access a method on the string.
JavaScript is going to convert it into a string object and look up the prototype chain for these methods.
That way we can perform all these actions on the string type to review everything in Javascript is an
object and arrays and functions in JavaScript are objects they inherit through the prototype chain from
the base object.
You can go up the prototype chain looking for properties on this prototype property this prototype property
also has the prototype property inside of it that links higher up to the next prototype chain Prado
always points to prototype and we also remembered that only functions have the prototype property and
at the end of the day this was useful for us because using prototypes we avoid repeating ourselves we
avoid adding the same code over and over and over and being inefficient with our memory but we can also
start creating some interesting programming paradigms now and practices using what we learned both prototypes
enclosures to write some really powerful programs.
We're almost ready to get into the next section.
I'll see you in the next video by.